# CloudMesh

CloudMesh is an innovative tool that allows communication and
interaction between cloud based solutions. Not all clouds are docker
based and there are different types of virtual and cloud environments.
Through CloudMesh, data can be shared and utilized by cloud solutions
that are not otherwise programed to communicate with each other. Cloud
mesh does not just manage a series of clouds, but centralizes and
deploys them as one main system that manages the data resources.

Quote von Laszewski:

*Cloudmesh is a project to easily manage virtual machines and bare metal
provisioned operating systems in a multicloud environment. We are also
providing the ability to deploy platforms.*

## Creating CloudMesh plug-ins

By creating CloudMesh plug-ins, it is possible to extend its potential
from different kinds of cloud based environments interconnection to
deployment of a container management system, in this case, Docker.

Utilizing CloudMesh to Centralize Docker Swarm Installation Cloud Mesh
does not have a plug in that allows you to deploy container solutions on
physical networks. Create a plug in that would allow Cloud Mesh to
deploy container solutions, in this case, the Swarm mode of Docker, to a
physical Debian based network, in this case, a series of raspberry pies.
Could be used as a model to deploy other types of container oriented
solutions. It is taking a simple network. Debian based network and
allowing it to centralize resources and assigning tasks and optimizing
different functions by installing a container management system, called
Docker Swarm.

In order to simulate the deployment of a Docker Swarm cluster, this
Cloudmesh project develops a Cloudmesh plug in, that deploys a Docker
Swarm cluster on three Raspberry Pi, allowing them to be part of this
multi cloud environment.

The cloud mesh allows you to use Methods to deploy the Docker Swarms as
container management tools, to the raspberry pi's.

